readme.markdown, before:

Media Temple
============

We're using a VPS (virtual private server) at Media Temple to setup a simple Linux box.

1. Setup a (ve) Server. http://mediatemple.net/webhosting/ve/
2. Associate your domain, like `vrtgo.cc`, in their DNS configuration.
3. Set the OS to Ubuntu Lucid (the default recommendation).
4. Enable SSH and change the root password.

Update Software
---------------
The first four shell actions (as root) will update the Ubuntu release,
with the exception of the `ifupdown` package, which causes the server 
network config to not "sync" with the OpenVZ manager. (An attempt at a fix
was made by user "twb" here: http://paste.debian.net/108679, but it didn't work).

* Change the default location for `aptitude` files from /tmp to /var/local/tmp 

		# wget -q paste.debian.net/plain/108685 -O - | sh

* Update installation (except for `ifupdown`)

		# aptitude update
		# aptitude hold ifupdown
		# aptitude upgrade

* While not necessary, I would `reboot` just in case. Ping until back up.

		# reboot

Add Users
---------

1. Login as root and add a new user. From Mac OS Terminal:

		> ssh root@vrtgo.cc  
		> root@vrtgo.cc's password: ****  

2. Add a new user named `scott`, and give this account `su` privileges with `visudo`

		# adduser scott  
		# visudo  

3. Add the following line below the root user:

		scott	ALL=(ALL) ALL

Save and quit. Enter `exit` and reconnect as your new account.


Secure SSH with keys
--------------------
On your Mac, generate a keypair. Make sure you use a phassphrase! 

		> ssh-keygen 

Now, to transfer your client public key to the server, you need `ssh-copy-id`
which doesn't come on Mac OS X. Fortunately, there's a bash script on our 
main server, that you can simply copy down to your home folder:

		> scp scott@vrtgo.cc:/usr/bin/ssh-copy-id ssh-copy-id

Run the script to copy your keys, then log back in.

		> ssh-copy-id scott@vrtgo.cc
		> ssh scott@vrtgo.cc

If the last line worked, you were able to login *without* your password.


Disable Root Login
------------------
You can still `su` as root, but we need to remove this big security hole.

		$ sudo vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config
	
Change the PermitRootLogin to "no". There are other tweeks we can make later.
	
		PermitRootLogin no

Save the file and restart the SSH Server

		$ sudo /etc/init.d/ssh restart
	

Setup Shell 
-----------
We install GIT right away in order to pull down the .cshrc and .vimrc files.

		$ sudo aptitude install git-core
		$ git version

I had to logout at this point to have git show up in the file system. I know there's a command here to fix that. 

## Change shell to tcsh
I don't like using bash for interactive shell. I'm a c-shell guy.

		$ chsh -s "/bin/tcsh"


## Install Ruby

Install minimal set of Ruby files in order to install our .dotfiles

		% sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends ruby-full

## Install dotfiles

		% cd ~
		% git clone git://github.com/rm8t/dotfiles.git .dotfiles
		% cd .dotfiles
		% ./install


TODO
----
Install `fail2ban`


End of file

Commit message:

Added local ssh port changes.

readme.markdown, after:

Media Temple
============

We're using a VPS (virtual private server) at Media Temple to setup a simple Linux box.

1. Setup a (ve) Server. http://mediatemple.net/webhosting/ve/
2. Associate your domain, like `vrtgo.cc`, in their DNS configuration.
3. Set the OS to Ubuntu Lucid (the default recommendation).
4. Enable SSH and change the root password.

Update Software
---------------
The first four shell actions (as root) will update the Ubuntu release,
with the exception of the `ifupdown` package, which causes the server 
network config to not "sync" with the OpenVZ manager. (An attempt at a fix
was made by user "twb" here: http://paste.debian.net/108679, but it didn't work).

* Change the default location for `aptitude` files from /tmp to /var/local/tmp 

		# wget -q paste.debian.net/plain/108685 -O - | sh

* Update installation (except for `ifupdown`)

		# aptitude update
		# aptitude hold ifupdown
		# aptitude upgrade

* While not necessary, I would `reboot` just in case. Ping until back up.

		# reboot

Add Users
---------
1. Login as root and add a new user. From Mac OS Terminal:

		> ssh root@vrtgo.cc  
		> root@vrtgo.cc's password: ****  

2. Add a new user named `scott`, and give this account `su` privileges with `visudo`

		# adduser scott  
		# visudo  

3. Add the following line below the root user:

		scott	ALL=(ALL) ALL

Save and `exit` back to Mac OS X Terminal.

		# exit


Secure SSH with keys
--------------------
On your Mac, generate a keypair. Make sure you use a phassphrase! 

		> ssh-keygen 

Now, to transfer your client public key to the server, you need `ssh-copy-id`
which doesn't come on Mac OS X. Fortunately, there's a bash script on our 
main server, that you can simply copy down to your home folder:

		> scp scott@vrtgo.cc:/usr/bin/ssh-copy-id ssh-copy-id

Run the script to copy your keys, then log back in.

		> ssh-copy-id scott@vrtgo.cc
		> ssh scott@vrtgo.cc

If the last line worked, you were able to login *without* your password.


Harden VPS ssh
------------------
You can still `su` as root, but we need to remove this big security hole.

		$ sudo vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config
	
Look for, and change the following lines:
	
		Port 54321 # Change from port 22 to something above 22 (but not 54321)
		PermitRootLogin no
		PasswordAuthentication no
		X11Forwarding no
		UsePAM no
		UseDNS no
		AllowUsers bob alice mary

Save the file and restart the SSH Server

		$ sudo /etc/init.d/ssh restart
		$ exit

Tell your Mac SSH about the new default port

		> touch ~/.ssh/config
		> echo "Port 54321" >> ~/.ssh/config
		> ssh scott@vrtgo.cc


Setup Shell 
-----------
We install GIT right away in order to pull down the .cshrc and .vimrc files.

		$ sudo aptitude install git-core
		$ git version

I had to logout at this point to have git show up in the file system. I know there's a command here to fix that. 

## Change shell to tcsh
I don't like using bash for interactive shell. I'm a c-shell guy.

		$ chsh -s "/bin/tcsh"


## Install Ruby

Install minimal set of Ruby files in order to install our .dotfiles

		% sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends ruby-full

## Install dotfiles

		% cd ~
		% git clone git://github.com/rm8t/dotfiles.git .dotfiles
		% cd .dotfiles
		% ./install


TODO
----
Install `fail2ban`


End of file
